---
title: Accounts Receivable Version 4.5 User Manual - Glossary
doc_type: UM
doc_label: User Manual
doc_layer: anchor
doc_subject: Glossary
app_code: PRCA
app_name: Accounts Receivable (AR)
section: FIN
app_status: active
pkg_ns: PRCA
patch_ver: 4.5
patch_id: PRCA*4.5
group_key: "PRCA:PRCA:4.5"
file_numbers: []
security_keys: []
menu_options: 0
description: - [Glossary](#glossary) <u>Account</u> Records established for an individual debtor in the AR Debtor file. One account can have any number of bills, just as a VISA or Master Card account can be used for multiple purchases. <u>Accounting Classification Code (ACC)</u> Nine-character codes used for bud
audience: 
keywords: 
  - bill
  - billing
  - number
  - account
  - care
  - service
  - accounts
  - veterans
  - medical
  - debtor
page_count: 0
word_count: 2124
section_count: 1
table_count: 0
figure_count: 0
appendix_count: 0
has_toc: False
is_stub: False
pub_date: 
revision_count: 0
revision_newest: 
revision_oldest: 
docx_url: "https://www.va.gov/vdl/documents/Financial_Admin/Accounts_Receivable_(AR)/icd-10_glossary_4_5_281.docx"
pdf_url: "https://www.va.gov/vdl/documents/Financial_Admin/Accounts_Receivable_(AR)/icd-10_glossary_4_5_281.pdf"
app_url: "https://www.va.gov/vdl/application.asp?appid=29"
---

# Glossary


<!-- back-to-toc -->[↑ Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

## Table of Contents

- [Glossary](#glossary)
<u>Account</u>
Records established for an individual debtor in the AR Debtor file. One account can have any number of bills, just as a VISA or Master Card account can be used for multiple purchases.
<u>Accounting Classification Code (ACC)</u>
Nine-character codes used for budget purposes. The FMS ACC’s replace CALM Fund Control Points.
<u>Accounting Technician</u>
The person in Fiscal Service who is responsible for processing accounting transactions.
<u>Account Profile</u>
A screen display or printout showing a summary of activity on an entire Accounts Receivable (refer to Transaction Profile for a view of a single transaction on an account).
<u>Accounts Receivable</u>
In the broadest sense, these are debts owed to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Throughout the documentation, this term is used interchangeably with the term "bills" for ease of expression. The Accounts Receivable section of Fiscal Service is that person or group of people whose duty it is to establish and maintain debtor account records.
<u>Accounts Receivable Clerk</u>
The person in Fiscal who establishes, audits and, maintains the station's debt collection files.
<u>Adjustment</u>
A transaction that makes an administrative change to the principal balance of a Bill or an account.
<u>Admin Charge</u>
An administrative charge incurred during the debt collection process and added to an account's principal balance. Fees for locator searches, marshall fees, and court costs are administrative charges.
<u>Agent Cashier</u>
The person in Fiscal Service (often physically located elsewhere) who makes or receives payments on debtor accounts and issues official receipts.
<u>  
ADP Security Officer</u>
The individual at your station who is responsible for the security of the computer system, both its physical integrity and the integrity of the records stored in it. Includes overseeing who has access to which files.
<u>AMIS</u>
Automated Management Information System.
<u>Application Coordinator</u>
The individuals responsible for the implementation, training and troubleshooting of the AR software package.
<u>Batch Number (this is not the FMS batch number)</u>
The number assigned to an Agent Cashier batch payment.
<u>Bill</u>
A receivable that has been generated by a billing service or section. See the Bill types 1080, 1081, OTHER (1114), or UB-92.
<u>Bill for Collection</u>
The actual Bill produced by an 1114 type billing. Formerly the second (carbon copy) page of the preprinted Form 1114 now only accessible to the Accounts Receivable Section as an electronic Bill.
<u>Billing Clerk</u>
That person in a billing service or section that is responsible for generating bills.
<u>Billing Cycle</u>
The life cycle of a Bill. From generation through approval, transmission to AR, mailing to the debtor, and being liquidated by posted payments until the debt has been paid.
<u>Billing Document (BD)</u>
An FMS document created for detailed receivables by Accounts Receivable during the audit process.
<u>Bill Number</u>
Each Bill has a unique number, tracked by service/section, which is used to identify it. It is usually assigned automatically by the system (see Common Bill Numbering Series).
<u>Budget Object Code (BOC)</u>
Four-digit number used to identify purchases. The FMS BOC’s are equivalent to CALM subaccounts.
<u>Cash Receipt (CR)</u>
An Accounts Receivable document used to record deposit information from the SF-215 Deposit Ticket into FMS.
<u>  
Category C (Hospital Care)</u>
Entitlement category for inpatient care in a VA Medical Center; non-service connected veterans whose income level exceeds certain minimums as determined by the MAS eligibility unit.
<u>Category C (Nursing Home Care)</u>
Entitlement category for long-term care in a VA Nursing Home; non-service connected veterans whose income level exceeds certain minimums as determined by the MAS eligibility unit.
<u>Category C (Outpatient Care)</u>
Entitlement category for outpatient care at a VA Medical Center; non-service connected veterans whose income level exceeds certain minimums as determined by the MAS eligibility unit.
<u>Common Bill Numbering Series</u>
A series of numbers set aside for each billing service/section, the system uses this series to assign Bill numbers automatically whenever the billing clerk needs to generate a new Bill.
<u>Common Numbering Series</u>
This is a preset series of Procurement DOC ID used by Accounting Technicians to generate new accounting transactions for AR. The Application Coordinators will establish the Common Numbering Series used by your facility.
<u>Correction</u>
A change made to a billing record before the initial Bill is generated.
<u>COWC</u>
The Committee on Waivers and Compromises. An appellate body, located in The Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans Benefits Administration Regional Offices.
<u>Credit</u>
A payment which, when posted to an account, reduces the principal balance (the debt). Scheduled payments under a repayment plan are credits.
<u>Crime of Personal Violence</u>
The result of a crime of personal violence; occurs in a state where the victim is entitled to receive health care and services at the expense of the state or a political subdivision. Billings are forwarded to the District Counsel for collection.
<u>DC</u>
The Department of Veterans Affairs' Office of the District Counsel. District Counsel areas of responsibility do not correspond to the Veterans Health Service and Research Administration regions.
<u>Debit</u>
A charge or fee which when posted to an account increases the principal balance (the debt). Interest and administrative charges are debits.
<u>Debt Collection</u>
This is the official name given to the process of sending out bills and collecting payments.
<u>Debtor</u>
A patient, person, vendor, insurance company or institution who owes the VA money.
<u>Default</u>
A suggested response that is provided by the system.
<u>Demand Letter</u>
The follow-up letters that are sent to a debtor, reminding him/her of the outstanding debt are called demand letters.
<u>DOJ</u>
The United States Department of Justice.
<u>Electronic Signature</u>
The electronic signature replaces the written signature on all AR documents used within your facility. Documents going off-station will require a written signature as well. The electronic signature code is used by all individuals who have the authority to approve actions (approve requests, purchase orders, obligations, etc.). The electronic signature is encrypted so that no one, not even a computer programmer, can tell what it is.
<u>Federal Tax ID</u>
A unique number that identifies your station to the Internal Revenue Service.
<u>FMS</u>
The Financial Management System which is responsible for centralized accounting.
<u>FMS Document ID (DOC ID)</u>
The station number + a unique document number. Formerly called the CALM PAT number.
<u>FL 4-480</u>
The first demand letter for Ineligible category debtors.
<u>FL 4-481</u>
The first demand letter for Humanitarian category debtors.
<u>  
FL 4-482</u>
The second demand letter for Ineligible, Humanitarian and Category C debtors.
<u>FL 4-483</u>
The third demand letter for debts under \$200 for medical care.
<u>FL 4-484</u>
The third demand letter for debts between \$200 and \$1200 for medical care.
<u>FL 4-485</u>
The third demand letter for debts over \$1200 for medical care.
<u>FL 4-513</u>
The first demand for Category C (Means Test) debts.
<u>GL</u>
The General Ledger to which all accounting transactions are posted.
<u>Hold</u>
A hold is a temporary restriction placed on mailing demand letters for a particular account. It is usually used when a debtor has made arrangements to pay the debt and letters would be redundant.
<u>Humanitarian</u>
Humanitarian billings are for non-veterans treated at a VA facility for a medical emergency. Also includes veterans treated under presumed eligibility later found to be ineligible.
<u>ICD</u>
Interest Computation Date. Usually the date of the first demand letter. (NOTE: Do not confuse this with the International Classification of Disease codes usually referred to as the ICD Codes.)
<u>Ineligible</u>
Ineligibles are veterans who have received medical care at a VA facility, but were later found not entitled to such service.
<u>Integrated Billing</u>
Integrated Billing (IB) is a software package that acts as an interface between the service that establishes a debt and the billing process in AR.
<u>Invoice Address</u>
The address printed on a purchase order to instruct the vendor where to mail his/her invoice.
<u>Insurance Company File</u>
File Number 36 holds information about the insurance companies that your station does business with. Debtor's address may be drawn from this file but is maintained separately. If the desired company is not in the file, contact MAS to have it added.
<u>Interest</u>
Amount charged to an account being paid on a repayment plan for carrying the account or on delinquent accounts.
<u>National Roll-Up</u>
The National Roll-Up software includes a central database to reside at the San Francisco ISC and interface software to reside at each field station. The interface software collects Accounts Receivable data from AR Version 4.5 and sends this data to the central database. The ISC will then process the AR data collected to centrally produce, for all sites, the VA Schedule 9 Report for the U.S. Treasury.
<u>No-fault Auto Accident</u>
Used for medical care required as the result of a motor vehicle accident in a state which has no-fault automobile insurance.
<u>OFM</u>
Office of Financial Management.
<u>Overpayment Document (OP)</u>
FMS document used to create manual refunds to veterans, insurance companies, etc. Formerly a 972.13 CALM code sheet.
<u>PAT Number</u>
Formerly, a unique number used to identify a CALM document. FMS DOC ID replaces the CALM PAT.
<u>Patient Statement of Account</u>
The monthly statement for patient type debtors, reflecting all activity (both charges and payments) recorded for that patient since his last statement was printed.
<u>RD</u>
Regional Director.
<u>Referral Amount</u>
Threshold amounts that determine (often independently) which accounts are referred to the District Counsel or the Department of Justice.
<u>Repayment Plan</u>
If a debt is so large that the debtor can't repay it in a lump sum a Repayment Plan may be established to pay it in regularly scheduled installments. Can be established by the Fiscal Officer or as the result of negotiations with the District Counsel or Department of Justice.
<u>  
Schedule 9</u>
A detailed report of receivables due to the VA. It categorizes receivables by age and status. With the release of the National Roll-up software, Schedule 9 will be centrally produced in San Francisco.
<u>Site Parameters</u>
Information (such as station number, cashier's address, billing address, etc.) that is unique to your station. All of AR uses a single Site Parameter file.
<u>Sub-BOC</u>
Two-digit code used with Payroll BOCs.
<u>Tasked Job</u>
A job, usually a printout, which has been scheduled to run at a predetermined time. Tasked jobs are set up to run without having a person watching over them.
<u>Tort Feasor</u>
Used for medical care provided as the result of a crime. A type of billing in which a firm receivable is not recorded until it is paid.
<u>Transaction</u>
Any action that affects a Bill or an account. All transactions are numbered sequentially and can be examined individually.
<u>Transaction Number</u>
A number assigned by the computer for an activity against a debt (such as increase adjustment, decrease adjustment, payment, etc.)
<u>Transaction Profile</u>
A screen display or printout that shows a summary of a single transaction.
<u>UB-92</u>
Uniform Bill 92 is a statement of charges for medical care used for all patient billing. Its use is restricted to the IB portion of the Medical Administration automated system.
<u>VA Form 1080</u>
A billing form used to transfer funds from one government agency to another when a check will be issued.
<u>VA Form 1081</u>
A billing form used to Bill other government agencies.
<u>VA Form 1114</u>
This form has been discontinued and has been replaced by the electronic Bill of Collection.
<u>  
Vendor File</u>
An AR file of all the vendors the facility does business with. This file, File \#440, contains ordering and billing address, contract information, and telephone numbers. The debtor's address may be drawn from this file, but is maintained separately. The vendor must be established by Austin to be added to FMS files.
<u>Worker's Compensation</u>
Usually referred to as Worker's Comp. Medical care provided as a result of an incident/accident occurring during a veteran's employment and covered by the Office of Worker's Compensation Program (OWCP).
<u>Write-off Document (WR)</u>
FMS document created to record an Accounts Receivable write-off.
